Title: What Sentence are you Referring to and Why? Identifying Cited Sentences in Scientific Literature
Scientific publications such as scientific papers
are some of the most valuable sources of human
knowledge, containing information as relevant as
how to cure diseases, create medicaments or construct useful life-saving machines; they are permanent records of what has been discovered so
far (Kuhn, 1970). The amount of scientific publications is growing at unprecedented rates (Bornmann and Mutz, 2015; Saggion and Ronzano,
2016) with recent estimates indicating that a new
research paper is published every 13 seconds. Scientific research needs awareness of what has been
discovered or published before us to progress: as
Newton has put it, "If I have seen further it is by
standing on the shoulders of Giants."
The value of a scientific article is sometimes assessed by the number of publications citing the
article, although this way of measuring research
is well established, it is only quantitative, leaving
qualitative considerations out of the picture. Although over the years several works have been interested in qualitative aspects related to paper citations (Moravcsik and Murugesan, 1975; SpiegelRosing, 1977; Teufel et al., 2006; Abu-Jbara et al.,
2013; Athar, 2011; Shotton, 2010; Fisas et al.,
2016; Valenzuela et al., 2015), recently, in the context of the Computational Linguistics Scientific
Summarization Challenge (Jaidka et al., 2016)
(CL-SciSumm hereafter), one task was identified
as relevant to citation analysis: given a scientific
paper – the reference, and another paper citing it,
the task is to determine what part of the reference
the citing paper is referring to, and also what particular aspect is being cited (e.g. the aim of the
paper? the method?). In this paper we investigate how to address the above task and present a
system which uses unsupervised sentence similarity metrics and supervised machine learning to address the challenge.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
- A thorough comparison of several sentence
matching algorithms relying on discrete and
continuous word representations;
- An state-of-the-art method for matching citing sentences to cited sentences in scientific
literature; and
- A trainable method for identifying citing
facets which, in terms of precision, achieves
competitive performance.
