Title: A Multi-level Annotated Corpus of Scientific Papers for Scientific Document Summarization and Cross-document Relation Discovery
Most scientific papers include a related work section
providing, in a well organized and condensed form, the
key information from a carefully selected list of publications which contextualize and ground the research
being presented by an author (Rowley and Slack, 2004).
Related work sections are critical for quality assessment
since journals pay particular attention to them where
evaluation of manuscripts is of concern (Maggio et al.,
2016). Past research has shown that related work sections
can be produced following cut-and-paste summarization
strategies (Jaidka et al., 2013) which are typical of document abstracting (insertion, deletion, substitution, etc.)
(Endres-Niggemeyer et al., 1995; Saggion, 2011).
Recent studies have proposed to take advantage of the
scientific paper’s citation network to approach scientific
literature summarization. For that reason we introduce
here our corpus which we hope will facilitate the usage of
citation networks to boost scientific literature summarization research. The generation of related work sections has
been studied from different viewpoints (Hoang and Kan,
2010; Vu, 2010; Hu and Wan, 2014), however no manual
annotated data-set, analog to the one we will present here,
has been produced until now.
Our corpus expands considerably the data-set of related
work sections used in (Hoang and Kan, 2010) by providing:
(i) related work sections, (ii) a manually annotated layer of
cited papers and sentences, (iii) citing papers referring to
the cited papers in the related work section, and (iv) a layer
of rich linguistic, rhetorical, and semantic annotations
computed automatically. While the manually identified
cited sentences are useful to support the study of sequence
to sequence models in scientific summarization, the new
layer of citing papers facilitates the test of citation-based
summarization approaches (Qazvinian and Radev, 2008;
Jaidka et al., 2014b) which rely on citation networks to
assess sentence relevance.
In this corpus we refer to three types of scientific papers:
target papers, reference papers, and citing papers which we
organize in a two-level network. Level 1 contains target
papers with their related work sections we are interested in
and, which cite a set of reference papers. Level 2 extends
the corpus by adding a layer representing a set of scientific
papers explicitly citing the reference papers in Level 1.
The rest of this article is organized as follows: The next
Section describes related work, then in Section 3 the initial
data set is described. Section 4 explains how we extended
the initial data set to form our corpus, alongside the data
collection process and automatic processing of the data.
Section 5 explains the manual annotation process and reports inter-annotator agreement. Then, Section 6 describes
several experiments carried out to simulate the retrieval of
sentences matching citation contexts and, finally, Section 7
closes the paper with conclusions.