Title: An Automatic Knowledge Graph Construction System for K-12 Education
Knowledge graph is a core component of new generation online education platforms for intelligent education. Different
from traditional massive open online course (MOOC) platforms focusing on learning resources provision, new generation online education platforms target on intelligent personalized educational services, such as automatic learning obstacle
diagnosis, personalized learning resource recommendation,
subject concept and relation visualization, and concept-level
knowledge proficiency examination. Our Smart Learning
Partner (SLP) is such a new generation education platform,
developed by Beijing Normal University, that officially serves
more than 15,000 local primary and middle school students
in Beijing. To better support SLP services, we propose this
K12EduKG system which can automatically build knowledge
graphs for different K-12 subjects by consisting of subject
concepts as nodes and concept relations as edges.
Compared to generic knowledge graphs, educational knowledge graph construction faces two major challenges: firstly,
the desired educational concept entities are more abstract than
real world entities like PERSON, ORGANIZATION, LOCATION. Secondly, the desired relations are more cognitive and
implicit, so cannot be derived from the literal meanings of text
like generic knowledge graphs. In this paper, we try to tackle
these two challenges with this proposed K12EduKG system.
More specifically, for abstract educational concept extraction,
we utilize special data sources like curriculum standards from
the education domain. In addition, we utilize students’ performance data collected from our SLP education platform to
identify relations through data mining techniques.
The proposed K12EduKG system endeavors to tackle the
above challenges, and it principally makes the following key
contributions:
We propose a novel but practical system to construct knowledge graphs specifically for k-12 educational subjects.
We employ named entity recognition (NER) techniques to
extract educational concepts, and propose association rule
mining algorithms to identify prerequisite relations among
the concepts.
We demonstrate an exemplary case with constructing a
knowledge graph for the subject of mathematics.
In the education domain, a few studies have been conducted
on knowledge graph construction recently. Chaplot and
Koedinger use educational data to induce the prerequisite
relations among multiple units in a course [2], and Liang et al.
recovers prerequisite relations from course dependencies [4].
Another group of researchers utilize the observed relations
among courses to create a directed universal concept graph [8,
5]. Different from those systems, our system tries to construct
knowledge graph on subject concepts rather than courses, and
the objective is to aid teaching and learning rather than finding course dependencies. In addition, we utilize students’
performance data rather than course descriptions to identify
relations.
