Title: An automatic literature knowledge graph and reasoning network modeling framework based on ontology and natural language processing
Along with the transformation from an industrial society to an information society starting from the 1970s, knowledge becomes one of
the key assets for the organizations. In the information society, the
creation, distribution, utilization, and manipulation of information
become important works, making the importance of intellectual work
significantly increased. There is a consensus that effective knowledge
management can bring an organization competitive advantage over its
rivals [1]. When researchers and practitioners paid much of their attention to the knowledge management to explore its value, more and
more documentation has been accumulated to record the generated
knowledge. Due to human’s limited cognitive capacity, it is a great
challenge to retrieve and obtain the knowledge from the accumulated
documentation in a human-friendly and efficient way.
According to epistemology, there exist two perspectives on the
knowledge related principles for a consensus: objectivist perspective
and practice-based perspective [1]. From the objectivist perspective,
knowledge is regarded as an entity that can be codified and kept independently among people who possesses and uses it. In contrast, the
practice-based perspective assumes that knowledge is embedded in,
developed through, and related to people’s workplaces and practices
[2,3]. The practice-based knowledge can be translated into objective
knowledge to some extent through generalizing, summarizing, and
abstracting. Literature is one of the most common sources of objective
knowledge, as it generally presents the facts with clear and systematical
discourses. The methodologies and experiments presented in the literature are reproducible, indicating that embedded knowledge can be
transmitted independently. More and more literature is accumulated in
the journal databases, offering a valuable way for knowledge management. Up to now, the Web of Science core collection database indexes more than 20,000 journals and 1.4 billion references data; ScienceDirect database indexes over 250,000 academic articles which can
be openly accessed; Scopus indexes over 69 million article records and
over 1.4 billion references data, which are extremely large knowledge
bases.
The accumulated knowledge in a large volume not only significantly
enhances science and technology research, but also offers strong support for industry practice and education. Powerful search engines have
been designed to support fast retrieval for given reference items or
related topic keywords. However, since all the academic literature is
unstructured data, the data retrieval mainly relies on the similarity
matching of the text features. The similarity matching mechanism
would retrieve hundreds and thousands of records for a given keyword,
while most of them are unintended records simply because those records contain the text of the given keyword. It is quite a challenging
work to construct the reasoning network with unstructured data, in
which most of the valuable knowledge are embedded. Without an appropriate reasoning network, it would be quite time-consuming to retrieve the knowledge when needed. Citation data, along with the development of information theory and literature management, is defined
as structured features to represent and identify literature. However, the
citation data only contains the authors’ names, affiliations, source
journals of the paper, and very limited knowledge embedded in the
title. The paper’s abstract, a concise and powerful statement describing
the works in the paper, could provide more information about the
paper. An abstract usually contains the background, objectives, solutions, and findings of the work. If the abstract data can be characterized
into these four aspects, the unstructured abstract data can be presented
by structured data, which tells in what background, who targeted at
what objectives, used what solutions, and discovered what findings.
This structured data can offer fundament knowledge to construct a
reasoning network. The key challenges now become how to automatically extract these four aspects from the abstract, and how to
connect the tetrad to construct a reasoning network.
Therefore, in addition to the conventional representation of citation
data, the abstract data is processed in this study using natural language
processing (NLP) technology. An ontology model based on the tetrad
structure (background, objective, solution, finding) is proposed to interpret abstract data of the literature. Key phases for each item in the
tetrads are extracted as features, which can be quantified using word
vectors. A reasoning network is constructed by connecting the tetrads
through calculating the correlation and difference. Therefore, based on
the citation and abstract data, each knowledge entity in the reasoning
network contains six aspects: authors, affiliations, background, objective, solution, and findings. With the constructed reasoning network,
the following knowledge can be deduced: (1) for a given background,
what objectives can be targeted; (2) for a given objective, what the
solutions are and how they perform; (3) for a given objective, who
would be the potential experts and organizations to handle the problems. Thus, the values of literature would be optimized.
The remaining of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents and summarizes the background and related works of this study.
The proposed automatic knowledge graph and reasoning network
modeling framework based on ontology and NLP is presented in Section
3. In Section 4, a case study with the research field of "construction
management2 is conducted to demonstrate and validate the proposed
framework. Section 5 discusses the findings in the case study. Finally,
the conclusions and limitations of the study are summarized in Section
6.