Title: Towards Automated Related Work Summarization
In many fields, a scholar needs to show an understanding of the context of his problem and relate
his work to prior community knowledge. A related work section is often the vehicle for this purpose; it contextualizes the scholar’s contributions
and helps readers understand the critical aspects
of the previous works that current work addresses.
Creating such a summary requires the author to
position his own work within the contextual research to showcase the advantages of his method.
We envision an NLP application that assists in
creating a related work summary. We propose this
related work summarization task as a challenge
to the automatic summarization community. In
its full form, it is a topic-biased, multi-document
summarization problem that takes as input a target scientific document for which a related work
section needs to be drafted. The output goal is to
create a related work section that finds the relevant
related works and contextually describes them in
relationship to the scientific document at hand.
We dissect the full challenge as bringing together work of disparate interests; 1) in finding
relevant documents; 2) in identifying the salient
aspects of these documents in relation to the current work worth summarizing; and 3) in generating the final topic-biased summary. While it is
clear that current NLP technology does not let us
build a complete solution for this task, we believe
that tackling the individual components will help
bring us towards an eventual solution.
In fact, existing works in the NLP and recommendation systems communities have already
begun work that fits towards the completion of
the first two tasks. Citation prediction (Nallapati
et al., 2008) is a growing research area that has
aimed both at predicting citation growth over time
within a community and at individual paper citation patterns. This year, an automatic keyphrase
extraction task from scientific articles was first
fielded in SemEval-2, partially addressing Task
1. Also, automatic survey generation (Mohammad et al., 2009) is becoming a growing field
within the summarization community. However,
to date, we have not yet seen any work that examines topic-biased summarization of multiple scientific articles. For these reasons, we focus on
Task 3 here – the creation of a related work section, given a structured input of the topics for summary.. The remaining contributions of our paper
consists of work towards this goal:
• We conduct a study of the argumentative patterns used in related work sections, to describe the
plausible summarization tactics for their creation
in Section 3.
• We describe our approach to generate an extractive related work summary given an input topic hierarchy tree, using two separate strategies to differentiate between summarizing shallow internal
nodes from deep detailed leaf nodes of the topic tree in Section 4.