Review and comprehension of existing research is
fundamental to the ongoing process of conducting
research; however, the ever increasing volume of
research papers makes accomplishing this task increasingly more difficult. To mitigate this problem
of information overload, a form of knowledge reduction may be necessary.
Past research (Garfield et al., 1964; Small,
1973) has shown that citations contain a plethora
of latent information available and that much
can be gained by exploiting it. Indeed, there
is a wealth of literature on topic-clustering, e.g.
bibliographic coupling (Kessler, 1963), or cocitation analysis (Small, 1973). Subsequent research demonstrated that citations could be clustered on their quality, using keywords that appeared in the running-text of the citation (Weinstock, 1971; Nanba et al., 2000; Nanba et al.,
2004; Teufel et al., 2006).
Similarly, other work has shown the utility in
the IR domain of ranking the relevance of cited papers by using supplementary index terms extracted
from the content of citations in citing papers,
including methods that search through a fixed
character-length window (O’Connor, 1982; Bradshaw, 2003), or that focus solely on the sentence
containing the citation (Ritchie et al., 2008) for
acquiring these terms. A prior case study (Ritchie
et al., 2006) pointed out the challenges in proper
identification of the full span of a citation in running text and acknowledged that fixed-width windows have their limits. In contrast to this, endeavors have been made to extract the entire span
of a citation by using cue-phrases collected and
deemed salient by statistical merit (Nanba et al.,
2000; Nanba et al., 2004). This has met in evaluations with some success.
The Cite-Sum system (Kaplan and Tokunaga,
2008) also aims at knowledge reduction through
use of citations. It receives a paper title as a query
and attempts to generate a summary of the paper
by finding citing papers1 and extracting citations
in the running-text that refer to the paper. Before
outputting a summary, it also classifies extracted
citation text, and removes citations with redundant content. Another similar study (Qazvinian
and Radev, 2008) aims at using the content of citations within citing papers to generate summaries
of fields of research.
It is clear that merit exists behind extraction
of citations in running text. This paper proposes
a new method for performing this task based on
coreference-chains. To evaluate our method we
created a corpus of citations comprised of citing
papers for 4 cited papers. We also analyze some
phenomena of citations that are present in our corpus.
The paper organization is as follows. We first
define terminology, discuss the construction of our
corpus and the results found through its analysis,
and then move on to our proposed method using coreference-chains. We evaluate the proposed
method by using the constructed corpus, and then
conclude the paper