A knowledge graph (KG) is a graph-structured knowledge
base that stores knowledge in the form of the relation between entities. An example KG is DBpedia(Auer et al.
2007). The KG plays an important role in various applications, e.g., question answering, browsing knowledge and
data visualization. However, most of the published data is
unstructured data and the trend of publishing such data is
dramatically growing faster than publishing structured data
(Kriz et al. 2014). Consequently, a large amount of data cannot be straightforwardly transformed into a KG and so is left
as unstructured data.
Recently, many approaches have proposed transforming
unstructured text to structured text in order to create a KG
(Carlson et al. 2010; Fader, Soderland, and Etzioni 2011;
Schmitz et al. 2012; Cattoni et al. 2012; Augenstein, Pado,
and Rudolph 2012; Kriz et al. 2014; Exner and Nugues
2012). Although those studies perform well for extracting
triples (subject, predicate, object) from unstructured text,
they still have a limitation regarding mapping a predicate
of a triple extracted from unstructured text to its identical predicate in the KG. Generally, many studies (Augenstein, Pado, and Rudolph 2012; Ratinov et al. 2011;
Mendes et al. 2011) focus on mapping only an entity, which
is usually a subject or an object of a triple, to its identical entity in a KG. Mapping a whole predicate to its identical predicate is usually ignored. Mapping a predicate to its identical
predicate in a KG is an essential procedure because it can
reduce the heterogeneity problem and increase the searchability over a KG. Although one study (Exner and Nugues
2012) introduced mapping a predicate of a triple extracted
from unstructured text to an identical predicate in a KG, the
approach uses the simple rule-based approach. As a result, it
cannot efficiently deal with the limitation of rule generation
due to the sparsity of unstructured text.
In this paper, we introduce T2KG: an end-to-end system
for creating a KG from unstructured text. In T2KG, we propose a hybrid approach that combines a rule-based approach
and a similarity-based approach for mapping a predicate of
a triple extracted from unstructured text to its identical predicate in an existing KG. The existing KG is used as control
knowledge when creating a new KG. In the similarity-based
approach, we present a novel vector-based similarity metric
for computing the similarity between the elements of triples
to overcome the sparsity problem.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2
gives a brief survey and related work regarding KG creation.
In Section 3, the detail of T2KG is presented. Experiments
and results are conducted in Section 4. Eventually, this work
is concluded in section 5.
KG construction generally considers the following three
tasks: 1) knowledge extraction, 2) entity mapping and 3)
data integration. Based on these tasks, previous approaches
can be roughly divided into three groups.
The first group (Carlson et al. 2010; Fader, Soderland, and
Etzioni 2011; Schmitz et al. 2012) mainly focuses on knowledge extraction from unstructured text. NELL (Carlson et al.
2010) is a never-ending system that learns to read the web.
To extract triples in NELL, bootstrap constraints are used
to learn new constraints. ReVerb (Fader, Soderland, and Etzioni 2011) and OLLIE (Schmitz et al. 2012) are open information systems that extract a triple from a sentence by using
syntactic and lexical patterns. Although these approaches
successfully extract triples from unstructured text, they still
do not consider entity mapping. As a result, ambiguity of an
extracted entity might occur.
The second group (Cattoni et al. 2012; Augenstein, Pado,
and Rudolph 2012; Kriz et al. 2014) also investigates knowledge extraction and entity mapping. In some studies (Cattoni
et al. 2012; Kriz et al. 2014), a triple is extracted from unstructured text by using Natural Language Processing (NLP)
techniques. Then, a triple is stored as an RDF triple by using
its own ontology. LODifier (Augenstein, Pado, and Rudolph
2012) uses a deep semantic analysis system and a named
entity recognition system with a coreference resolution system to acquire a triple and generates an RDF triple by using
WordNet representation without considering other ontologies. Even though these approaches can resolve the ambiguity of an extracted entity, all elements of a triple are not yet
integrated into other KGs.
The third group (Exner and Nugues 2012) considers all
aspects for creating a KG. Exner et al. use a semantic role
labeling method with a state-of-the-art NLP to extract a
triple from Wikipedia and then applies a rule-based approach to integrate an RDF triple into the ontology of the KG
(Exner and Nugues 2012). Although this approach (Exner
and Nugues 2012) can integrate a predicate into the ontology of a KG, it still has the following severe limitation. Due
to the sparsity of unstructured text, bootstrapping training
data for generating rules might not cover all possible patterns; consequently, some rules are missing. To overcome
this problem, we introduce the hybrid approach that combines the rule-based approach and the similarity-based approach by using a vector-based similarity metric to identify
the same predicate in the T2KG system.