The evolution of scientific ideas happens when old ideas are replaced by
new ones. Researchers usually conduct scientific experiments based on the
previous publications. They either take use of others work as a solution
to solve their specific problem, or they improve the results documented in
the previous publications by introducing new solutions. I refer to the former as positive citation and the later negative citation. Citation sentence
examples 1 with different sentiment polarity are shown in Table 1.
Sentiment analysis of citations plays an important role in plotting scientific idea flow. I can see from Table 1, one of the ideas introduced in
paper A0 is Hidden Markov Model (HMM) based part-of-speech (POS)
tagging, which has been referenced positively in paper A1. In paper A2,
however, a better approach was brought up making the idea (HMM based
POS) in paper A0 negative. This citation sentiment analysis could lead
to future-works in such a way that new approaches (mentioned in paper A2) are recommended to other papers which cited A0 positively 2.
Analyzing citation sentences during literature review is time consuming.
Recently, researchers developed algorithms to automatically analyze citation sentiment. For example, [1] extracted several features for citation
purpose and polarity classification, such as reference count, contrary expression and dependency relations. Jochim et al. tried to improve the
result by using unigram and bigram features [2]. [3] used word level features, contextual polarity features, and sentence structure based features
to detect sentiment citations. Although they generated good results using
the combination of features, it required a lot of engineering work and big
amount of annotated data to obtain the features. Further more, capturing
accurate features relies on other NLP techniques, such as part-of-speech
tagging (POS) and sentence parsing. Therefore, it is necessary to explore other techniques that are free from hand-crafted features. With the
development of neural networks and deep learning, it is possible to learn
the representations of concepts from unlabeled text corpus automatically.
These representations can be treated as concept features for classification.
An important advance in this area is the development of the word2vec
technique [4], which has proved to be an effective approach in Twitter
sentiment classification [5].
In this work, the word2vec technique on sentiment analysis of citations
was explored. Word embeddings trained from different corpora were compared.