As scientific communities grow and evolve, new
tasks, methods, and datasets are introduced and
different methods are compared with each other.
Despite advances in search engines, it is still hard
to identify new technologies and their relationships
with what existed before. To help researchers more
quickly identify opportunities for new combinations of tasks, methods and data, it is important to
design intelligent algorithms that can extract and
organize scientific information from a large collection of documents.
Organizing scientific information into structured
knowledge bases requires information extraction
(IE) about scientific entities and their relationships.
However, the challenges associated with scientific
IE are greater than for a general domain. First, annotation of scientific text requires domain expertise
which makes annotation costly and limits resources.
In addition, most relation extraction systems are designed for within-sentence relations. However, extracting information from scientific articles requires
extracting relations across sentences. Figure 1 illustrates this problem. The cross-sentence relations
between some entities can only be connected by
entities that refer to the same scientific concept,
including generic terms (such as the pronoun it,
or phrases like our method) that are not informative by themselves. With co-reference, context-free
grammar can be connected to MORPA through the
intermediate co-referred pronoun it. Applying existing IE systems to this data, without co-reference,
will result in much lower relation coverage (and a
sparse knowledge base).
In this paper, we develop a unified learning
model for extracting scientific entities, relations,
and coreference resolution. This is different from
previous work (Luan et al., 2017b; Gupta and Manning, 2011; Tsai et al., 2013; Gabor et al. ´ , 2018)
which often addresses these tasks as independent
components of a pipeline. Our unified model is
a multi-task setup that shares parameters across
low-level tasks, making predictions by leveraging
context across the document through coreference
links. Specifically, we extend prior work for learning span representations and coreference resolution
(Lee et al., 2017; He et al., 2018). Different from a
standard tagging system, our system enumerates all
possible spans during decoding and can effectively
detect overlapped spans. It avoids cascading errors
between tasks by jointly modeling all spans and
span-span relations.
To explore this problem, we create a dataset SCIERC for scientific information extraction, which
includes annotations of scientific terms, relation
categories and co-reference links. Our experiments
show that the unified model is better at predicting span boundaries, and it outperforms previous
state-of-the-art scientific IE systems on entity and
relation extraction (Luan et al., 2017b; Augenstein
et al., 2017). In addition, we build a scientific
knowledge graph integrating terms and relations
extracted from each article. Human evaluation
shows that propagating coreference can significantly improve the quality of the automatic constructed knowledge graph.
In summary we make the following contributions. We create a dataset for scientific information
extraction by jointly annotating scientific entities,
relations, and coreference links. Extending a previous end-to-end coreference resolution system, we
develop a multi-task learning framework that can
detect scientific entities, relations, and coreference
clusters without hand-engineered features. We use
our unified framework to build a scientific knowledge graph from a large collection of documents
and analyze information in scientific literature.