1.1 Background.
Citation count between scientific publications have
been the primary metric to measure importance and
impact of articles or authors for decades. The advantage is simplicity and effectiveness. However,
with the progress of machine learning, NLP and
other disciplines, researchers developed various
techniques to improve the quality of citation analysis and hence the quality of scholarly importance
measurement. One of the efforts was to apply PageRank in citation network, which introduces weight
on citation links for more accurate measurement
(Ding, 2011). Although, this type of weighting is
widely criticized (Alvarez and Soriano, 2014). Recent bibliometric studies showed that "there is no
bad publicity in science", because criticized and
controversial papers tend to be highly cited too (Radicch, 2012; Perc, 2014). Consequently, these controversial papers are positively estimated according
to citation-count-based metrics, for example, impact
factor and h-index. As Bonzi (1982) argued that if a
cited work is criticized, it should consequently carry
lower or even negative weight for bibliometric
measures (Athar and Teufel, 2011).
1.2 Our contribution.
Sentiment analysis of citation sentence makes this
kind of fine-grained bibliometric measures possible.
Augmented with polarized citation links, the citation network can be weighted more accurately by
using negative weights. We introduce the p-index,
which is the h-index extended by citation polarities.
Our assumption is that papers from prominent researchers are more probable to be cited in a positive
manner than the papers from controversial researchers. Generally, if we know more about a researcher,
it should be easier to determine the polarity of citations his/her paper receives. Our research question
is whether or not the performance of citation sentiment analysis can be improved with better author
modelling, in particular modeling with citation polarity.
In this paper, we report our on-going work on the
citation sentiment analysis task. The rest of the paper is structured as follows: the next section briefly
reviews some important work in this field. Then we
introduce our method. In section 4, we present our
experiment details. Preliminary experiment results
and discussions about the results are structured in
section 5 and 6. Finally, we summarize our work
and discuss possible directions of future work. 
Teufel et al. (2006) was one of the pioneers in the
field of citation classification. She proposed a classification scheme of 12 citation functions and used
supervised technique for the classification task. 
Athar (2011) continued this thread of research
and focused in polarity classification of citations.
They experimented the SVM classifier with rich
features, such as negation, sentence splitting and dependency features. Athar (2012) published the Citation Sentiment Corpus, which contains 8736 annotated sentences.
Jochim (2012) used the following facet scheme
to describe the nature of a citation: conceptual vs.
operational; organic vs. perfunctory; evolutionary
vs. juxtapositional; based on vs. alternative work;
confirmative vs. negational.
Dong (2011) performed semi-supervised classification over categories: background, fundamental
idea, technical basis and performance comparison.
They have also developed the ACL Anthology
Searchbench, which provides very practical paper
search functionality with graphical presentation of
local citation network of searched paper.1
Abu-jbara et al. (2013) has also contributed to
this field by working on citation context identification, citation purpose classification and citation polarity identification. Their method achieved good
performance by using SVM with linear kernel on a
rich feature set.