Title: OpenIE-based approach for Knowledge Graph construction from text
Information consumed every day by people in a variety
of services such as supermarkets, banks, libraries, and web
search engines is internally stored in a structured fashion to be efficiently queried and transformed. However,
nearly 95% of data is unstructured (Tanwar et al., 2015),
which means that valuable information has not been explored and that would be useful in applications such as
user preferences (satisfiability), merchandising, or demographic movements, to mention a few. Hence, such data
need to be transformed into a structured format in order
to be handled and processed by applications and users.
The Web has been a valuable data source for several tasks
such as NLP, Information Extraction, Machine Learning,
among others. However, much of such data is unstructured, in the form of text, which is unfeasible or very expensive to process due to its large scale and heterogeneity.
In this sense, one of the aims of the Semantic Web (Daconta et al., 2003) is to extract and formally represent information by leveraging formal data interchange formats,
standards, and technologies of the Web.
In recent years, many data publishers have relied on the
benefits provided by the Semantic Web for quickly publishing, parsing and processing data by machines. This development has been partially supported by the Linked Open
Data (LOD) initiative with more than 80 billion published RDF triples. Such data has been mainly extracted
from (semi-) structured sources (e.g., relational databases,
meta-data, Wikipedia infoboxes, HTML tables). Nevertheless, a huge amount of information from the Web is
mainly stated as plain text (without any structure or description), and translating it into a structured format requires text manipulation tasks provided by areas such as
Natural Language Processing (NLP), Information Extraction (IE), and Information Retrieval (IR). With the support of such areas, two main elements are typically extracted and semantically annotated from text: named entities and semantic relations between them. The extraction of such elements and their representation on the
Semantic Web are the main components of a task that we
coin as Relation Extraction and Linking (REL). Broadly
speaking, the output of the REL task is a (RDF) graph
that, in the context of the Semantic Web, is known as a
Knowledge Graph (KG) (Ehrlinger & Wöß, 2016), where
nodes refer to named entities and edges to the semantic relation between them. The difficulty of constructing Knowledge Graphs by REL-based approaches relies
on the large scale and heterogeneity of the text (as seen
in the Web) and linguistic problems such as detection of
synonymy (e.g., words cat and kitty) and ambiguity (e.g.,
identify the word orange as fruit or as color), to mention
a few. Moreover, there are no defined standards that indicate the specific information to be extracted and formally
represented, which is a difficult decision even for a knowledge domain expert. However, we identified three kinds
of REL approaches that deal (partially) with such issues:
Discourse-based, Distant Supervised-based, and OpenIEbased.
First, Discourse-based approaches analyze the use of
language in terms of written and spoken communication
structures (Exner & Nugues, 2012; Corcoglioniti et al.,
2016), whose goal is the unsupervised understanding of
text. Such approaches are useful for constructing taxonomies and building connections between propositions
extracted from text. However, their use involves the representation of text with a combination of logical implications and linguistic structures that may complicate the
data consumption (i.e., querying and parsing data).
Second, Distant Supervised-based approaches train a
machine learning algorithm with information from a KG.
Thus, similar facts to those represented in a KG are extracted from text. Although such approaches often provides high levels of precision, their use is limited to a closed
world assumption (everything not in the training KG is
false) and to the often complex adjustment of parameters
used by such algorithms.
Finally, and the focus of this work, OpenIE-based approaches (Dutta et al., 2014, 2015) obtain propositions
(usually binary relations) with no restriction of a domain
and without requiring training data. Although OpenIE
has received less attention (in the context of RDF triple
extractions) than the above-mentioned approaches, it is
a useful technique that allows a semantic representation
through predicative statements (clauses where the verb is
the core of the relation) that may be helpful for shallow
questions (e.g., who directed the Star Wars movie?). However, REL approaches based on OpenIE present some issues regarding the recognition of entities, properties and
the representation of binary relations. For example, given the following running example "The clinician –Dr. Gregory
House– diagnosed a cancer patient in New York City", we
can explain the following aspects:
- Entity Linking. Named entities extracted from text
must be linked to resources of a KG. The often reduced number of extractions returned by existing systems for such purpose (further explained in this paper as Entity Extraction and Linking) limit the number of relations that can be represented. For example,
in the running example, we may only obtain and link
to a KB (DBpedia) the entity clinician(dbr:clinician)
but additional entities (such as Cancer(dbr:Cancer), or
New York(dbr:New_York_City)) are necessary to represent a complete RDF triple. In consequence, REL approaches (Gangemi et al., 2017) are sometimes prone
to automatically generate IRI identifiers for the named
entities, resulting in differences of meaning and interpretation (data heterogeneity).
- Entity selection. Several entities might appear as the
subject or object of the relation. However, there are no
criteria for picking a single one. For example, given
the binary relation (extracted from the running example) diagnosed(Dr. Gregory House, cancer patient in
New York) and the entities cancer(dbr:Cancer) and patient(dbr:patient), the selection of one entity over the
other to represent the object of such relation is not a
straightforward task. Existing REL approaches (Dutta
et al., 2014; Exner & Nugues, 2012) address this aspect
by rules that restrict the selection of specific types of
entities. However, such restrictions limit the result to a
particular kind of relations to be extracted.
- Property linking. In the previous binary relation, the relation phrase "diagnosed" should also be identified with
an IRI from a resource associated to an ontology or a
KG. Existing approaches (Exner & Nugues, 2012; Dutta
et al., 2015) map relation phrases to KG properties
through generated rules and text similarity measures.
However, such mappings may not always exist and thus,
an alternative solution needs to be stated.
- Representation. OpenIE-based REL approaches typically represent a binary relation with only one triple.
However, due to the number of involved elements, a single RDF triple is often insufficient for representing the
information and thus, some elements can not be represented. In the case of the extracted relation previously
presented, the named entity New York City would not be
represented within the triple if we select Gregory House
as subject and cancer as object (because the same triple
element can not contain two resources).
According to the above mentioned issues, in this paper,
we propose an approach based on OpenIE relations for the
construction of KGs from plain text in English. Similar to
existing systems, our approach consists of the integration
of NLP/IE tools and Semantic Web technologies for processing and representing elements of text. Moreover, we
propose some linguistic associations that allow for extracting and integrating semantic relation elements and named
entities on RDF triples. We opted for OpenIE before other
approaches because it provides binary relations that constitute atomic units of information used to convey facts
(with no need of training and additional configurations),
which can simplify the querying and presentation of data.
As a motivating example, given the running example
sentence, our approach would be able to extract and represent binary relations like diagnosed(Dr. Gregory House,
cancer patient) using an RDF graph model as presented
in Figure 1. We rely on an n-ary representation (several
triples that convey ideas of the same statement), where the
binary relation is broadly represented through the node
(ex:d1evt5); the relation phrase is described by the node
(pmn:pb215-diagnose.01), which denotes the main action or event of the semantic relation and which was disambiguated over resources of a lexical database to get the
correct sense. With the correct sense of the relation, we
are able to represent the causer of the action (denoted by
the property ex:agent) and the undergoer of the action
(denoted by the property ex:patient) through a semantic
analysis. Finally, entities that belong to the same grammatical unit of information (particularly Nominal Phrases
(NP)) are associated to the same resource through the
property ex:partOf. A more detailed example is provided
later in this paper.
Contributions. In order to deal with the previously mentioned issues and solution, we propose the following strategies:
- We propose a strategy for the extraction and linking of
named entities with KG data based on the integration
of Entity Extraction and Linking (EEL) systems (as an
ensemble-like strategy). The intuition is that a greater
number of coupled extractors provide more extractions
than only one single tool.
.-We provide a strategy for the selection and representation of the named entities contained within a semantic
relation. The strategy is based on the closeness of entities to the relation phrase and on the association of
named entities with NPs in order to keep the semantic
cohesion and coherence of components in a statement.
- We provide a strategy to select and associate an identifier for the relation phrase of a semantic relation. For
such purpose, the semantic role of the words in the se mantic relation is obtained and associated to information provided by a lexical database (with IRI identifiers).
- Based on the previous contribution, we propose a strategy for the representation of elements in a binary semantic relation through a n-ary model. For such purpose,
we also propose support rules for the selection of entities acting as causer and undergoer of an action in a
semantic relation.
Our results demonstrate the benefits of combining Entity Extraction and Linking systems in terms of the F1
measure regarding individual systems. Results also demonstrate that the integration of named entities with grammatical structures provides a better understanding (regarding a baseline system) of proposition-based representations provided by OpenIE for supporting the construction of KGs.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 provides a background of concepts and related
work. Details of the approach are provided in Section 3.
Section 4 presents implementation details. Section 5
presents some experiments and results. Finally, conclusions are presented in Section 6.