Title: Knowledge Graph Generation From Text
Automatic Knowledge Graph (KG) construction is
an active research area aiming at representing the
information present in abundant textual corpora in
a more organized, structured and compressed form,
which can be efficiently utilized in a variety of
downstream applications, including reasoning, decision making, question answering, to name a few.
However, this is a challenging problem due to the
inherent non-unique graph representation (graph
with N nodes can have N! equivalent adjacency
matrices), complex node and edge structure (node
set is not fixed and edges are not binary), large
output spaces (for graph with N nodes the system
may need to output up to N2
edges to specify its
structure), lack of efficient architectures specialized
for graph-structured generation output and limited
parallel training data.
The related problem of generating text from
a given KG is generally more widely studied,
with many suggested architectures and approaches.
Among the proposed methods, some of the current state-of-the-art systems that work on small or
moderately-sized graphs, (Li et al., 2020; Ribeiro
et al., 2020; Agarwal et al., 2020; Xie et al.,
2022), usually formulate it as a simple sequenceto-sequence problem by representing the graph in
a linearized form and fine-tune the pre-trained language models (PLMs), such as T5 (Raffel et al.,
2020) or BART (Lewis et al., 2020), on the task
of translating the sequence of triples to the corresponding textual description.
Nevertheless, KG generation remains a popular
research area, receiving attention from many communities, including natural language processing
(NLP), data mining, and machine learning. Recent success of the Transformer-based language
models from the NLP community (Vaswani et al.,
2017; Devlin et al., 2019; Raffel et al., 2020), pretrained on large textual corpora, led to a series of
works that attempted to exploit the vast amounts of
learned linguistic knowledge for the downstream
task of KG construction. Some of these approaches
looked into a simpler problem of graph completion
(Li et al., 2016; Yao et al., 2019; Malaviya et al.,
2020). The drawback of these methods is that they
are limited to the task of extending existing graphs
by local neighborhood modifications and are not
suitable for building the entire global graph structures. Alternatively, other works (Petroni et al.,
2019; Roberts et al., 2020; Jiang et al., 2019; Shin
et al., 2020; Li and Liang, 2021) proposed to query
the pre-trained models to extract the learned factual and commonsense knowledge. The idea is to
prompt the language model to predict the masked
objects in cloze sentences describing the partially
complete triples. Similarly as before, these methods are usually only suitable for local graph patching, lacking the ability to perceive the global graph
structure.
Alternatively, there are a number of works that
propose to generate the entire graph structure
ground up. One example is GraphRNN from You
et al. (2018), which models a graph as a sequence
of additions of new nodes using node-level RNN
and edges using another edge-level RNN. Although
promising for our task of KG construction, the sequential and greedy nature of its generation can
cause sub-optimal graph structures. CycleGT of
(Guo et al., 2020b) is an unsupervised method for
text-to-graph and graph-to-text generation, where
the graph generation part relies on off-the-shelf
entity extractor followed by a classifier to predict
the relationships. The reliance on external NLP
pipelines breaks the end-to-end continuity of system training, potentially leading to sub-optimal
results. Similarly, (Dognin et al., 2020) proposed
DualTKB employing unsupervised cycle loss to
enable the graph-text translation in both directions.
However, their method was applied only to single
sentence-single triple generation, limiting applicability for larger graphs. Other approaches, such
as BT5 from (Agarwal et al., 2020) proposed to
utilize large pre-trained T5 model to generate KG
in a linearized form, where the object-predicatesubject triples are concatenated together and the
entire text-to-graph problem is viewed as sequenceto-sequence modeling. The potential issue with
this approach is that the graph linearization is not
unique and inefficient due to the repetition of graph
components multiple times, leading to long sequences and increased complexity. (Lu et al., 2022)
is another text-to-structure method, however it uses
predefined schema (e.g., for entity or triplet extraction), while our method is schema-free and generalizes to any text form of nodes and edges. Finally, (Wang et al., 2020) proposed MaMa for KG
construction, where entities and relationships are
first matched using the attention weight matrices
from the forward pass of the LM. Those are then
mapped to the existing KG schema to generate the
final graph.
The proposed system: Grapher Analyzing the
shortcomings of the existing methods, in this work
we propose to address them with a novel Knowledge Graph construction system which we call Grapher, presented schematically in Fig. 1. Given input
text, the graph generation is split into two steps. In
the first step, we leverage the representation power
of pre-trained language models, e.g., T5 (Raffel
et al., 2020), fine-tuned on the task of entity (graph
nodes) extraction, while in the second stage the
relationships (graph edges) are generated using the
available entity information. There are three main
properties of Grapher: (i) The use of state-of-theart language models pre-trained on large textual
corpora, used for node generation is key to the algorithm’s performance as it lays out the foundation
for the entire graph. The available parallel data
for learning the text to graph translation is usually small, therefore training custom-built entity
extraction architectures from scratch on this limited data is inferior to fine-tuning the already pretrained Transformer-based language models. (ii)
The partitioning of graph construction process into
two steps ensures efficiency that each node and
edge is generated only once, which is in contrast
to graph linearization approaches, e.g., (Agarwal
et al., 2020) (Dognin et al., 2021), whose graph
sequence representation is non-unique and can be
inefficient. (iii) Finally, the entire system is end-toend trainable, where the node and edge generation
are optimized jointly, enabling efficient information transfer between the two modules, avoiding
the need of any external NLP pipelines such as
entity/relation extraction, co-reference resolution,
etc. We evaluate the proposed Grapher on three
datasets: the WebNLG+ 2020 Challenge (Ferreira
et al., 2020) matching state-of-the-art performance
for Text-to-RDF generation as well as on NYT
(Riedel et al., 2010) and a recent large-scale TEKGEN (Agarwal et al., 2021) dataset showing strong
results outperforming existing baselines.
