A knowledge graph (KG) organizes entities, attributes, relations, and other information in a structured format [Hogan et
al., 2020]. One single KG is often incomplete while different
KGs can complement each other to form a larger and more
comprehensive KG via alignment, i.e., discovering equivalent entities, relations, and others across two KGs. Due to
wide KG applications, KG alignment, especially entity alignment, has attracted massive attention.
KG embeddings have become a powerful tool to exploit KGs by encoding entities, relations, and others into a
low-dimensional vector space [Wang et al., 2017]. Many
embedding-based models have been proposed for entity
alignment [Sun et al., 2020], and usually comply with the
following paradigm. They first embed the to-be-aligned KGs
into one vector space and then discover the mappings by calculating the vector distance or similarity.
Although the embedding-based models have achieved encouraging results, they are still limited in some aspects especially in industrial deployment. These models usually require a number of known mappings (i.e., alignment seeds) for
training. However, seed annotation requires massive manual
work, which may not be available in practice. An industrial
evaluation study has shown the number and the sampling distribution of alignment seeds can dramatically influence the
alignment performance [Zhang et al., 2020]. The embeddingbased models emphasize establishing expressive embeddings
to capture entity features and then independently predict each
mapping, ignoring the holistic analysis and logical consistency, which often leads to some false mappings.
In contrast, conventional KG alignment systems exploit
various more traditional techniques such as logical reasoning and lexical matching. For example, the classic system
LogMap [Jimenez-Ruiz and Grau, 2011 ´ ] iteratively discovers
mappings by lexical and graph matching, and repairs mappings by logical reasoning. PARIS [Suchanek et al., 2012] is
another representative system that utilizes probabilistic reasoning and lexical matching. Specifically, after getting initial
mappings by matching with attributes such as names, PARIS
expands the entity and relation mappings in each iteration by
inferring the entity and relation equivalence with probabilistic
reasoning. As no training is needed, these systems never rely
on any alignment seeds, and are quite scalable and efficient.
It is worth noting that PARIS and LogMap often outperform
those embedding-based models according to the recent studies [Sun et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2020]. On the other hand,
these conventional systems use traditional lexical and graph
matching techniques that are weak at exploiting and utilizing
the graph structure and other contextual information.
In light of the complementarity between the embeddingbased models and conventional systems, we propose to construct a unified framework that absorbs the advantages of
both. The main challenge is to find the effective ways to
make two completely different models work together. In this
work, an unsupervised iterative framework named PRASE
is proposed, which is composed of a Probabilistic Reasoning (PR) module and a Semantic Embedding (SE) module.
Specifically, the PR module initializes the mappings and infers logically consistent mappings with the entity embeddings
from the SE module, while the SE module emphasizes learning high-quality cross-KG embeddings that encode the graph
structures and the entity contexts. Note that the SE module
is compatible with all kinds of embedding-based alignment
models; while the PR module is currently developed based
on the conventional system PARIS, but it can be extended to
other reasoning-based systems such as LogMap.
The contributions of this paper are threefold. First, an unsupervised KG alignment framework termed PRASE is proposed, which integrates probabilistic reasoning and semantic
embedding using an iterative algorithm. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first to combine traditional reasoning
techniques and state-of-the-art embedding techniques for KG
alignment. Second, the PRASE framework has been implemented with PARIS and multiple different embedding-based
models. Third, the PRASE framework has been evaluated
on five widely used datasets and one industry dataset. The
results show the state-of-the-art performance of PRASE. On
average, the F1-score of PRASE is 28.6% higher than the
best embedding-based model and 5.96% higher than the best
conventional system. Different settings of PRASE, such as
the feedback from the SE module to the PR module and the
iteration number, have also been studied.