With the rapid growth of digital libraries and the wide access to scholarly publications, it
has become possible for researchers to explore and process massive amounts of scientific
data with the aim of extracting scientific knowledge. Currently, digital libraries contain a
big number of online scholarly publications. The aim of digital libraries is to collect and
store all relevant publications in one database. For example, the IEEE Xplore Digital Library
contains a collection of full-text publications and citations from IEEE journals, conference
proceedings, technical magazines, and books. The IEEE digital library allows users to browse
and search quickly for a specific scientific publication. For every publication, the library lists
its references and all articles that have cited it. This is accomplished by citation index services
such as Google Scholar. These services allow researchers to find publications and citation
information.
A citation is a text that references previous work for different purposes such as comparing,
criticizing, or acknowledging different sources (Alvarez and Gómez 2014). Citations have
been used to characterize and obtain information on different types of documents. As an
example for scientific articles, the number of citations received has been used to determine
the impact of a paper (Garfield 1972, 1979). Citation information can be described as citation
count or citation context.
A citation context can be defined as a text or several sentences surrounding references in the
body of a publication (Small 2011). Citations can be classified as explicit or implicit citations.
Explicit citation refers to the sentence or group of sentences around a reference position in a
paper (Athar and Teufel 2012b). Implicit citation is a sentence close to reference position but
there is no direct linkage to that reference (Qazvinian and Radev 2010). To illustrate the types
of citation context, we use the following example. Consider the following citation: Active
learning (AL) (Wang et al. 2012) and semi-supervised learning (SSL) are two well-known
techniques that make use of unlabeled data to improve classification performance. Both
techniques are iterative processes and reported good performance compared to supervised
approaches. In this example, the first sentence is an explicit citation, and the second sentence
is an implicit citation.
Citation count is one of the citation analysis methods for evaluating research results
of research units such as journals and departments (Garfield 1972). It is the number of
times a particular publication has been cited by researchers. The number of citations that a
research unit has received determines its quality or impact. However, this evaluation method
is incomplete and may not calculate the impact of research units perfectly (Abu-Jbara et al.
2013). Therefore, many researchers have exploited citation contexts to analyze the reasons,
influence, and sentiment of the cited articles in the citing articles to build more accurate
methods to evaluate the research results.
Citation context is a good source for different applications that demand knowing cita-
tion purpose or reasons for quoting a concept, using approaches, and criticizing an idea
from prior literature (Teufel et al. 2006). For example, researchers can capture the citation
purpose or sentiment about a certain journal and build a new citation analysis method that
integrates citation count with the authors’ opinion when citing articles from that journal.
This particular new technique may improve the methods of research quality assessment.
In addition, as reported by Athar (2014), it is interesting for young researchers to under-
stand the common perspective of the literature in a particular field. This understanding can
aid them to discover the gaps in the literature simply by analyzing the negative citation of
papers. It could be helpful for them to know the contributions of researchers in that field
by identifying the positive polarity of cited work in citing work. Polarity can be positive,
negative or neutral; According to Abu-Jbara et al. (2013) citation polarity can be defined
slightly different from the definition in sentiment analysis (SA). Positive citation directly
expresses the strength of the cited papers, e.g. if the cited work compared with other works
and considered better in the final results. Negative citation expresses the drawbacks and
weakness of cited work explicitly, e.g., if it is compared to another paper and considered

worse in any way. Neutral citation is just a description of a specific idea without any senti-
ments.

So far, social media platforms are the main source of opinionated information. Currently,
scholarly databases are the new domain that can provide an opportunity to find out authors’
sentiment through evaluating citation information in academic publications. However, mining
authors’ attitudes from digital library documents specifically citation context is difficult
because of the characteristics of citation information (Alvarez and Gómez 2014). Extracting
opinionated citation information about entities such as topics, ideas, and theories is a complex
task because of the issue of avoiding criticism in academic writing. Therefore, it is challenging
to identify the correct citation context and mining sentiment in scholarly publications. Mining
authors’ sentiments in scholarly publications specifically analyzing the citation context of
the cited works for understanding the authors’ attitudes for citing the previous literature is
knowns as sentiment analysis.
Scientific citation sentiment analysis (SCSA) is a new domain in the sentiment analysis
field with the aim to detect the attitudes of authors towards cited works (Athar 2011). In
this study, domain refers to document types such as product reviews, forums, news articles,
and citations, in which researchers can apply a specific technique to detect the sentiment.
Parthasarathy and Tomar (2015) presented a brief review. They focused on defining the topic
of sentiment analysis of citations and suggested supervised machine learning techniques as
future methods to study SCSA. Their survey is however limited to consider important issues
in this field. Our survey is different, since we provide comprehensive survey that includes
presenting common sentiment and citation concepts that are useful for beginners to gain
a general idea of the field. Further, we present important concepts in SCSA that include
the normal process of SCSA and the most important challenges. Furthermore, we introduce
related topics to SCSA.
The contributions of our survey lie in presenting current developments and to review
existing techniques as follows: (1) We present studies based on the methods applied. This
can aid researchers and outsiders to the field develop a basic understanding of the SCSA
research field. The presented techniques are also critically discussed based on their pros
and cons. (2) We cover fields related to SCSA that have attracted research interest are also
covered. These fields include citation function classification and citation recommendation.
(3) This survey presents different datasets that are commonly utilized in SCSA. We explain
the procedure of citation context extraction of existing datasets. Finally, this survey discusses
some open problems and recommendations for future research.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Sect. 2 presents the background of this work
including SA and the SCSA process. Section 3 shows the research methodology. Section 4
analyzes and discusses SCSA challenges and techniques. In Sect. 5, we introduce related
fields to SCSA. Section 6 presents future recommendation. Finally, the conclusions of this
paper are provided in Sect. 7.
Sentiment analysis (SA) is a growing field of research influenced by and reaching into text
mining, machine learning, computational linguistics, and natural language processing. It
is a method of processing and analyzing people’s attitudes, opinions, sentiments, and the
subjectivity of text (Liu 2012). SA can help to gain many benefits and achieve different goals
such as measuring customer satisfaction, checking customers’ opinions in the intelligence
market, and forecasting movie sales (Jiang et al. 2010; Kang and Park 2014; Li and Tsai 2013;
Rui et al. 2013). Applications of SA can be found in different domains. For example, product
reviews mainly helps users to evaluate different products before they buy. Such methods may
help them to select the proper and high-quality items through the analysis of comments of
reviewers. Analyzing the attitudes of people in a specific event such as presidential campaign
could help the voters to decide which candidate they will support (Wang et al. 2012).
A significant number of literature surveys have been published in recent years in the area
of SA that have explored SA as well as opinion mining tasks, approaches, and applications in
different domains. For instance, Pang and Lee (2008) conducted a comprehensive review of
SA. Their survey discussed several applications of SA, its main challenges and tasks. They
grouped SA tasks into categories and elaborated each one in detail. The tasks include senti-
ment extraction, sentiment classification, opinion summarization, and polarity determination.
On the other hand, Tang et al. (2009) presented SA issues such as sentiment classification
in a different level of analysis, sentiment extraction, and subjectivity classification. Machine
learning approaches such as Naïve Bayes (NB) classifier and Multiple NB classifier have
been demonstrated as methods for subjectivity analysis. O’Leary (2011) presented a sur-
vey on SA on the blog. This work focused on the process of searching and extracting the
opinions from blogs. Similarly, Montoyo et al. (2012) presented the limitations of SA with
achievements. In their paper, they suggested the lack of non-English resources and social and
cultural dependence of these resources for SA as open problems to be addressed. Tsytsarau
and Palpanas (2012) conducted a survey on SA and discussed opinion mining and opinion
aggregation. The comparison was made by applying several opinion mining techniques using
public datasets. Liu and Zhang (2012) presented SA and opinion mining tasks and these tasks
include subjectivity and sentiment classification, sentiment lexicon generation, aspect-based
SA, analysis of comparative opinions, opinion summarization, opinion search and retrieval
and opinion spam detection and quality of reviews. Cambria et al. (2013) presented a survey
about SA challenges and difficulties.
Moreover, Feldman (2013) concentrated on five issues related to SA areas such as sen-
timent lexicon generation, comparative SA, sentence-level SA, and aspect-based SA. The
authors also presented composition statement, automatic entity recognition, sarcasm detec-
tion and subjectivity classification as the new open issues in SA domains. Medhat et al.
(2014) performed a survey of fifty-four articles by covering sentiment classification and fea-
ture selection methods. The authors only focused on sentiment classification methods and
presented its tasks, algorithms, data sources, language type and domain.
Recently, deep learning methods have become a popular solution to address SA tasks.
Rojas-Barahona (2016) reviewed recent works on deep learning for SA and grouped deep
learning models into recursive, non-recursive, and the combination of both models. The
authors also compared the document level and sentence level SA on two datasets. They con-
clude that deep learning models can be a better solution for polarity detection. Poria et al.
(2016) proposed use of deep convolutional neural network (CNN) to extract features from
multimodal content and feed these features to a multiple kernel learning classifier for senti-
ment detection. Their method manages to achieve good results using different datasets. Tang
et al. (2016) proposed supervised learning model based on long short term memory algorithm.
In this model, a sentence representation was made by capturing the link between each target
word and its contexts. They reported that incorporating target information improves the clas-
sification accuracy of the proposed model. Akhtar et al. (2016) proposed a hybrid approach
that utilizes CNN to learn embedded features and then used a multi-objective genetic algo-
rithm based optimization technique to generate the sentiment augmented optimized vector.
They trained SVM with non-linear kernel for sentiment detection.
More recently, Cambria (2016) studied affective computing and sentiment analysis and
presented emotion recognition, polarity detection, subjectivity detection, opinion target iden-
tification, and multimodal fusion as the main tasks. They also listed three categories to handle
these tasks with their advantages and disadvantages namely: knowledge-based techniques,
statistical methods, and hybrid approaches. They recommend ensemble application of seman-
tic knowledge and machine learning as the best way for addressing the tasks of affective
computing and sentiment analysis. Piryani et al. (2017) collected opinion mining (OM) and
SA publications published in Science Citation Index Expanded (SCIE) journals from the
year 2000 to 2015. They performed a useful scientometric and manual analysis to explain the
SA research status. Scientometric analysis was used to identify the percentage of growth of
OMSA publications, top productive countries, universities, journals and authors. The manual
analysis aimed to identify popular methods used in these publications, levels of SA and key
application areas of OM and SA. Their results are valuable for SA and OM researchers.
On the other hand, multimodal, multilingual, multi-domain SA systems have gained more
attention recently. For example, Soleymani et al. (2017) conducted a review about multi-
modal sentiment analysis in different domains such as product reviews, video blogs, and
images. They introduced the problem of multimodal sentiment analysis and presented the
main challenges in this field. Dragoni (2017) built a tool for multi-domain sentiment analysis
by exploiting word embedding with recurrent neural network. They used word embedding to
generate word representation and then train recurrent network model. In their model, multiple
output layers were used to combine the scores of overlapping domains with domain-specific
polarity scores. This combination allows the use of linguistic overlaps between domains.
They calculate the overall polarity by multiplying domain-specific polarity value with the
overlap between the representation of the entire sentences and the domain itself. Vilares et al.
(2017) performed multilingual polarity classification on Twitter and compared three different
approaches namely multilingual, dual monolingual, and monolingual models. Monolingual
model is based on a language identification tool. These models were evaluated using English
and Spanish tweets, and the multilingual approach performed better than other models. Val-
divia et al. (2017) suggested the TripAdvisor platform as a source of data for SA tasks in the
tourism domain. They stated that, it is difficult to adapt existing SA techniques because of
the content nature of the TripAdvisor reviews. Moreover, they presented aspect-based SA,
irony and sarcasm detection, and spam detection as future challenges. Zhao et al. (2017) pro-
posed a deep learning model to detect the sentiment from product reviews by incorporating
rating information of the product reviews. The proposed model contains two steps: learning
representation to capture sentiment distribution of reviews through rating information and
using a few label data for sentiment prediction.
Moreover, the combination of multiple deep learning algorithms could be useful for
improving the performance of SA models. Hassan and Mahmood (2017) proposed deep
learning model by combining CNN with Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) methods and
used word embedding to represent the review sentences. In this model, they used LSTM as
pooling layer to capture long term dependencies, which is one of the limitations of CNN algo-
rithm. They evaluated their model using IMDB and Stanford’s sentiment Treebank datasets.
The proposed model solved the polarity detection task and alleviates the word order problem.
Similarly, Nguyen et al. (2017) combined CNN and LSTM to solve the task of aspect-level
sentiment analysis for news articles. This combination is useful when it requires capturing
the semantic of the words and the association between them.
One of the recent directions of SA is to enhance the teaching process through analyzing the
comments of students about the learning resources. Rani and Kumar (2017) proposed SA’ sys-
tem for students to improve the process of teaching and learning by analyzing their feedback
about a specific course. The proposed system contains data collection and preprocessing, sen-
timent detection, satisfaction and dissatisfaction computation, and data visualization. Their
system classified sentiment into positive and negative. Whereas emotion were classified into
different categorizes. They tested their system using data from Coursera1, which contain
multilingual student feedback. All of the above-mentioned survey papers only focused on
traditional domains such as micro-blogs and product reviews. To the best of our knowledge,
there is no review paper that studied sentiment analysis in the specific domain of citations.
Figure 1 shows the relationship between SA and scientific citations. In this figure, there
are different domains to detect user’s sentiment such as product review, micro blogs, and
discussion forums. Citations are considered a new document type or domain in which an
author’s sentiment could be detected.
SCSA has become an important research field unlike other domains such as micro-blogs
and product reviews because the citation texts are different in content type, language, and text
styles. One of the possible uses of SCSA is to improve the bibliometric measures (Abu-Jbara
et al. 2013) such as the impact factor (Garfield 1979) that can help in identifying the article’s
impact. In addition, it can support researchers in understanding previous contributions and
limitations of proposed theories, tools and methods in a specific field (Athar 2014). Another
use of SCSA is to recognize problems and gaps in a particular topic through classifying the
literature findings as positive or negative contributions. SCSA faces several problems, and
it is difficult to detect authors’ opinions behind quoting others. It is even more challenging
when we want to apply subjective analysis.